Cypher25 default language (#2372)
neo4j/docs-operations: modules/ROOT/pages/authentication-authorization/dbms-administration.adoc

CREATE ROLE roleManager IF NOT EXISTS;
CREATE ROLE userAdder IF NOT EXISTS;
CREATE ROLE userNameModifier IF NOT EXISTS;
CREATE ROLE userModifier IF NOT EXISTS;
CREATE ROLE userDropper IF NOT EXISTS;
CREATE ROLE userViewer IF NOT EXISTS;
CREATE ROLE userManager IF NOT EXISTS;
CREATE ROLE userImpersonator IF NOT EXISTS;
CREATE ROLE allUserImpersonator IF NOT EXISTS;
CREATE ROLE authModifier IF NOT EXISTS;
CREATE ROLE passwordModifier IF NOT EXISTS;
CREATE ROLE statusModifier IF NOT EXISTS;
CREATE ROLE homeDbModifier IF NOT EXISTS;
CREATE ROLE databaseAdder IF NOT EXISTS;
CREATE ROLE compositeDatabaseAdder IF NOT EXISTS;
CREATE ROLE databaseDropper IF NOT EXISTS;
CREATE ROLE compositeDatabaseDropper IF NOT EXISTS;
CREATE ROLE databaseModifier IF NOT EXISTS;
CREATE ROLE accessModifier IF NOT EXISTS;

> CREATE ROLE languageModifier IF NOT EXISTS;Enables the specified roles to delete composite databases.

Author: I have no idea how this happened.

image::privileges_grant_and_deny_syntax_dbms_privileges.svg[width="800", title="Syntax of GRANT and DENY DBMS privileges"]

image::privileges_hierarchy_dbms.svg[width="800", title="DBMS privileges hierarchy"]

[NOTE]
====
You can only grant privileges to existing roles.
====

== The `admin` role privileges

The xref:authentication-authorization/built-in-roles.adoc#access-control-built-in-roles-admin[`admin` role] role is a built-in superuser role that has all privileges on the DBMS and can perform all administrative tasks.

These include:

* <<access-control-dbms-administration-database-management, Create, delete, and modify databases>> and  <<access-control-dbms-administration-alias-management, aliases>>.
* Change configuration parameters.
* xref:authentication-authorization/database-administration.adoc#access-control-database-administration-transaction[Manage transactions].
* Manage <<access-control-dbms-administration-role-management, users>> and <<access-control-dbms-administration-user-management, roles>>.

> * Manage sub-graph <<access-control-dbms-administration-privilege-management, privileges>>.

Author: Yeah, I think it makes sense.

* Change configuration parameters.
* xref:authentication-authorization/database-administration.adoc#access-control-database-administration-transaction[Manage transactions].
* Manage <<access-control-dbms-administration-user-management, users>> and <<access-control-dbms-administration-role-management, roles>>.

> * Manage <<access-control-dbms-administration-privilege-management, privileges>>.

Author: Could you give me the exact suggestion? I am not sure I follow your thoughts. "one" goes to the top of the PR.

a|Rows: 1
|===

> The `ALTER USER` privilege allows the user to run the `ALTER USER` administration command with one or several of the `SET PASSWORD`, `SET PASSWORD CHANGE [NOT] REQUIRED`, `SET AUTH`, `REMOVE AUTH` and `SET STATUS` parts. +

Reviewer: not sure why it wasn't there before either but this should probably also mention the set/remove home database clauses

|===

The `ALTER USER` privilege allows the user to run the `ALTER USER` administration command with one or several of the `SET PASSWORD`, `SET PASSWORD CHANGE [NOT] REQUIRED`, `SET AUTH`, `REMOVE AUTH` and `SET STATUS` parts. +
For example:

[source, cypher, role=noplay]
----
ALTER USER jake SET PASSWORD 'verysecret' SET STATUS SUSPENDED
----

[NOTE]
====

> Note that the combination of the `SET PASSWORDS`, `SET AUTH`, `SET USER STATUS`, and the `SET USER HOME DATABASE` privilege actions is equivalent to the `ALTER USER` privilege action.

Reviewer: also, why are they named privilege actions? 🤔 
```suggestion
Note that the combination of the `SET PASSWORDS`, `SET AUTH`, `SET USER STATUS`, and `SET USER HOME DATABASE` privileges is equivalent to the `ALTER USER` privilege.
```

> ALTER USER jake SET STATUS ACTIVE

Reviewer: was before line 649 and now 768 but looks updated now (wasn't when I added the comment)

----

=== Grant privilege to modify the home database of users

You can grant the privilege to modify the home database of users using the `SET USER HOME DATABASE` privilege.
For example:

[source, cypher, role=noplay]
----
GRANT SET USER HOME DATABASE ON DBMS TO statusModifier
----

As a result, the `statusModifier` role has privileges that only allow modifying the home database of users.
To list all privileges for the role `statusModifier` as commands, use the following query:

[source, cypher, role=noplay]

> ----

Author: This one is below one line757.

> ----

Reviewer: the old line seems to have been 712 and the current one 802, but looks like it have been updated at least so 🤷  (wasn't when I added the comment)

ALTER USER jake SET PASSWORD 'abcd5678' CHANGE NOT REQUIRED
----

=== Grant privilege to modify users' auth providers

> You can grant the privilege to modify users' auth providers using the `SET AUTH` privilege. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can grant the privilege to modify users' auth information using the `SET AUTH` privilege. +
```
since you can change both the provider and the relevant clauses for that provider (id or password)

[source, cypher, role=noplay]
----

> SHOW ROLE statusModifier PRIVILEGES AS COMMANDS;

Reviewer: we shouldn't use `statusModifier` in this example, not if we want it to only deal with home db since that is the role that was used for status, should be updated to something like `homeDbModifier` (and added to test setup at top of page)

[[access-control-dbms-administration-impersonation]]
== The DBMS `IMPERSONATE` privileges

The DBMS privileges for impersonation can be assigned through Cypher administrative commands.
They can be granted, denied, and revoked like other privileges.
The DBMS privileges for impersonation can be granted, denied, and revoked like other privileges.

Impersonation is the ability of a user to assume another user's roles (and therefore privileges), with the restriction of not being able to execute updating `admin` commands as the impersonated user (i.e. they would still be able to use `SHOW` commands).

The ability to impersonate users can be granted via the `IMPERSONATE` privilege.

[NOTE]
====

> For more details about the syntax descriptions, see xref:database-administration/syntax.adoc[].

Author: Ah, I see. The link was pointing to the top of the page and somehow it didn't make any sense. I'll update them and put them back.

|===

=== Grant privilege to impersonate all users

You can grant the privilege to impersonate all users using the `IMPERSONATE (*)` privilege.
For example:

[NOTE]
====

> `userImpersonator` must be an existing role in order to grant the privilege.

Author: I'll move it to the top of the page.

[[access-control-dbms-administration-impersonation]]
== The DBMS `IMPERSONATE` privileges

The DBMS privileges for impersonation can be granted, denied, or revoked like other privileges.

Impersonation is the ability of a user to assume another user's roles (and therefore privileges), with the restriction of not being able to execute updating `admin` commands as the impersonated user (i.e. they would still be able to use `SHOW` commands).

[NOTE]
====
For more details about the syntax descriptions, see xref:database-administration/syntax.adoc#administration-syntax-reading[Reading the administration commands syntax].
====

> You can use the `IMPERSONATE` privilege to allow a user to impersonate another user.

Author: But it is above the table, as on all pages. What do you mean?

[[access-control-dbms-administration-impersonation]]

> == The DBMS `IMPERSONATE` privileges

Reviewer: Note to self: This is how far I got in the re-review

a|Rows: 1
|===

The ability to create, delete, and modify databases and aliases can be granted via the `DATABASE MANAGEMENT` privilege.
See an example:
=== Grant privilege to manage standard and composite databases

You can grant the privilege to create, delete, and modify standard and composite databases using the `DATABASE MANAGEMENT` privilege.
For example:

[source, cypher, role=noplay]
----
GRANT DATABASE MANAGEMENT ON DBMS TO databaseManager
----

> The resulting role has all privileges to manage standard and composite databases as well as aliases.

Reviewer 2: I opened PR #2445 to fix this in the 5.x version. The current docs will be fixed when we merge this PR

a|Rows: 1
|===

[rol=label--new-2025.06]
=== Grant privilege to modify the default language of standard databases

You can grant the privilege to modify the default language of standard databases using the `SET DATABASE DEFAULT LANGUAGE` privilege. +
For example:

[source, cypher, role=noplay]
----
GRANT SET DATABASE DEFAULT LANGUAGE ON DBMS TO languageModifier
----

As a result, the `languageModifier` role has privileges that only allow modifying default language to standard databases.
To list all privileges for the role `languageModifier` as commands, use the following query:

[source, cypher, role=noplay]
----
SHOW ROLE languageModifier PRIVILEGES AS COMMANDS;
----

.Result
[options="header,footer", width="100%", cols="m"]
|===
|command
|"GRANT SET DATABASE DEFAULT LANGUAGE ON DBMS TO `languageModifier`"
a|Rows: 1
|===

[rol=label--new-2025.06]

> === Grant privilege to modify composite databases

Reviewer: you resolved it without adding a tag or a comment saying you skipped it 🤷

[[access-control-dbms-administration-alias-management]]
== The DBMS `ALIAS MANAGEMENT` privileges

The DBMS privileges for alias management can be assigned by using Cypher administrative commands and can be applied to both local and remote aliases.
They can be granted, denied and revoked like other privileges.

> It is also possible to manage aliases with <<access-control-dbms-administration-database-management, database management commands>>.

Reviewer 2: same here, see https://github.com/neo4j/docs-operations/pull/2445

| Enables the specified roles to list, assign, and remove privileges.
|===

=== Grant privilege to list privileges

You can grant the privilege to list privileges using the `SHOW PRIVILEGE` privilege. +
A user with this privilege is allowed to execute the `SHOW PRIVILEGES` and `SHOW ROLE roleName PRIVILEGES` administration commands.
To execute the `SHOW USER username PRIVILEGES` administration command, both this privilege and the `SHOW USER` privilege are required. +

> For example:

Author: All of these sentences are repeating the same thing in a way.

> For example:

Author: How about:

"You can grant the `SHOW PRIVILEGE` privilege to allow a user to list privileges using the `SHOW PRIVILEGE`, `SHOW ROLE roleName PRIVILEGES`, and `SHOW USER username PRIVILEGES` administration commands.
The `SHOW USER username PRIVILEGES` command also requires the `SHOW USER` privilege."

a|Rows: 1
|===

> === Grant privilege to execute specific procedures

Reviewer: should the second example/section also have the `The procedure is run using the user's own privileges.` sentence?

DENY EXECUTE FUNCTION apoc.any.prop* ON DBMS TO deniedFunctionExecutor
----

> As a result, the `deniedFunctionExecutor` role has privileges that only allow the execution of all procedures except those starting with `apoc.any.prop`.

Reviewer: same in the sentence after the result
```
The `apoc.any.property` and `apoc.any.properties` are blocked, as well as any other procedures starting with `apoc.any.prop`.
```
so it also needs to be updated to say functions
```
The `apoc.any.property` and `apoc.any.properties` are blocked, as well as any other UDFs starting with `apoc.any.prop`.
```

[[access-control-dbms-administration-all]]
== Granting `ALL DBMS PRIVILEGES`

You can grant the `ALL DBMS PRIVILEGES` privilege to a role. +
The `ALL DBMS PRIVILEGES` privilege is equivalent to granting the following privileges:

* Create, drop, assign, remove, and show roles.

> * Create, alter, drop, show, and impersonate users.

Reviewer: since I can't comment below:
```
* Create, alter, and drop databases and aliases.
* Enable, alter, rename, reallocate, deallocate, and drop servers
```
should both probably also say `show`? (show databases might not be a privilege as such but show aliases are at least and those lines are combined into one so (plus the database privileges affect which databases are returned by show databases so it's not that wrong 🤷))
